---
layout: post
title:  "$MSF...B?"
date:   Mon, 25 Jul 2011 10:00:00 -0400
category: blog
published: false
---

The integration between social networking giant Facebook and enterprise giant
Microsoft is really astounding. It seems to me that a large part of
Microsoft’s future is tied up in the success of Facebook. Perhaps, the Redmond
giant ought to change its ticker symbol from $MSFT to $MSF**B**?

Recently, Facebook announced a new addition to its communication suite: Skype
integration with regular ol’ FB chat. This allows all the users of Facebook to
see each other in real-time. Now, remember that Skype was just acquired by
Microsoft for a cool $8 billion.

On top of this new partnership, Facebook’s search capability has long been
powered by Microsoft’s search engine Bing. And furthermore, recently Bing has
been airing TV commercials that highlight the social integration with the
search engine. Namely, you can see what your Facebook friends have to say
about a particular search result.

There is no doubt a strategic partnership to be had, particularly as an
affront to search behemoth Google. The company spans many verticals: mobile
with Android, (now) social with Google+, enterprise software with Google Apps.
Though let’s not kid ourselves, Google Docs is nowhere near Microsoft Word.

But how will the partnership play out? Will there be a dramatic episode as
there was between the Apple and Adobe of the late 90’s? Will there eventually
be a move to make all of Microsoft’s products social through Facebook? Is such
reliance on another company dangerous in the long-term?

I’m not quite sure what the relationship will develop into, though I am quite
sure it will leverage the combined audiences of Microsoft (now including that
of Skype) and Facebook, and that is massive. Even with Google+ growing at the
rate of a million users per day (the same as FB during its rapid acceleration
in 2009), the Mountain View company must be hyper vigilant. This is going to
get interesting.
